:tocdepth: 1

.. _satire_8:

Don't Leave Your Girlfriend
===========================

.. container:: center

    by :ref:`chris`

I know right now you are seeing red. You really want to pull the plug on your
relationship because of the pain your girlfriend has caused you. But I'm
telling you right now that would be the wrong thing to do.

Sure, you've noticed that she suddenly started having to go to the grocery
store because she forgot to get something earlier far more often than she used
to. But we all forget things, right? Haven't you ever forgotten something,
bucko?

And of course it does seem odd that she suddenly started going out to the bars
every weekend with this old friend from school who you still haven't met, but
that's what's great about school friends! You can pick them back up like they
never ended!

Now you might be thinking that the fact she started taking a shower every night
immediately when she gets home from vague work functions when she didn't used
to care before is a dead giveaway. But come on, you're really going to be mad
at her for taking better care of herself? Disgusting.

Look, I know that you think that your relationship doesn't stand a chance just
because some random guy told you he had sex with your girlfriend. But do you
even know that guy? Besides, she said he was lying! And he said his friend
could prove it but this so called friend says he doesn't remember anything and
just wants to stay out of it!

You see, in America, we believe in a little thing called innocent until proven
guilty. There is no evidence that she is cheating. Just a lot of he-said
she-said. Just evidence so circumstantial that a judge would laugh you right
out of the courtroom if you brought it up. Give me a break. When did you become
so corrupt that you would ruin a woman's future with these unprovable,
unsubstantiated claims? Take a good long look at yourself.

You know, I'm starting to think maybe your girlfriend should leave you for
being so petty.
