:tocdepth: 1

.. _article_17:

Gard-ing Hope and the Loss of a Child
=====================================

.. container:: center

    by :ref:`jesse`


Maybe there are people on Earth who live in holes and are unfamiliar with
Charlie Gard, the eleven-month-old baby boy, born with a rare genetic condition
known as Encephalomyopathic Mitochondrial DNA Depletion Syndrome (MDDS). The
same baby boy the judge ruled should 'die with dignity'. His parents are
continuing their fight to bring him from the United Kingdom to the United
States for an experimental treatment that admittedly may not do much for him,
or has a small chance of helping in any meaningful way when quality of life is
concerned. From my understanding, they have two more days (7/12) to show "new
and powerful evidence" that the treatment might work. I hope the boy is given a
chance regardless of how slim it may be.

I know where these parents are coming from. I was in their shoes for five
daysâ€”the longest five days of my life. My initial fear, on top of her passing
away, was her passing without a name. It seemed like even more of an injustice
at the time. *No baby should pass away without a name*, repeated in my head. We
decided on Madison Nichole, the perfect name for an angel.

With each passing day in the hospital, my despair was replaced with more hope.
I memorized each medicine she was on and how much she was receiving. I spoke
with the nurses and doctors at length. They would take care of her until she
could come home. Home. The place she never got to go. I remember coming home on
the fourth day to the other kids and my oldest asking, "When is she coming
home?" He was only six at the time... but I could see the sadness in his face
when I shook my head and said, "She's not coming home (yet? Maybe I said yet)."

The next morning we got the call. You see, we didn't stay every night at the
hospital. I was in for the long haul and I had so much faith in the doctors.
Her mother had just had a baby and needed rest. And we had other children. So
many ways to justify it. Had I known she had five days I would have never left.
So, back to the call... the doctor said we needed to come quick. I remember
questioning the doctor over the phone thinking the doctor was overreacting. How
foolish.

Her lungs were too underdeveloped to survive because of the infection. That's
what they told us. They could keep her on oxygen, but the sacs that filled with
oxygen would explode and she would pass in more pain. The only other option was
removing her from all of the machines and allowing her to pass away in our
arms. That's what we did. It was only the second time we got to hold her
without the machines present. Her mother held her, and I held them both. That
was the last hour of her life.

Had I known the outcome, and I were given a choice, I would have given my life
a hundred times to save her. I would have done anything fathomable, assuming it
wouldn't have put her in unnecessary pain. And so I say let these parents
exhaust all options before having to do what I did. Before Charlie passes away
in their arms. Maybe, just maybe, he will get to go home...
