:tocdepth: 1

.. _article_25:

A Society of Victimhood
=======================

.. container:: center

    by :ref:`matt`

What's wrong with today's society! I can think of one word that truly
stops us from finding success at Coming together and unifying our
country. Victimization.

Even at the lowest levels. Blaming someone else for another's
misfortune. Redirecting blame instead of finding the disease and
supplying a cure. We have forgotten how to be specific, because that
takes accountability.

Being accountable doesn't always mean you have all the answers, but it
does mean you will work tirelessly to finding an solution. Look at your
closest peer groups, it's not hard to spot that one person who always
points a finger. But we as Americans have amplified that attribute to a
national platform.

White privilege, Inherent culture racism, systemic racism, and the list
goes on. We have redefined the terms of racist, bigot, and sexist in
America. They are used so broadly that it has become hard to pinpoint
the exact facts about the obstruction lurking behind the curtain.

That same proverbial curtain that is destined to stifle the basic
components of our individual freedom. If you pinpoint the exact
instance of institutional racism, I'll stand by you in front of the the
firing line. But when it is used as hate speech, to blockade free
speech, I draw a line in the sand. It's a sin against the fabric of our
country.

So I leave it at this, let's start being responsible to ourselves by
pinpointing facts, so we can have a coherent debate. A debate that will
spark a fire to redefine politics as we know it. Or simply put, let's
cut the bullshit.

There are always problems, but we stop building the cornerstone of
success the moment we are no longer resolute to power of accountability.

.. admonition:: Quote
   :class: admonition-todo


    A house divided, can not stand. â€” A. Lincoln
