:tocdepth: 1

.. _article_3:

The Reality Check America Needs
===============================

.. container:: center

    by :ref:`matt`

Americans across the country have protested with vigor, anguish and animosity
against President Elect Donald Trump. They have screamed, stomped, cried and
pleaded for the Electoral College to change the decision of the race. You can
say they do have or don't have valid arguments, but one thing is for certain,
reality hits you hard bro...

This I hope is finally the moment Americans need to resurrect the importance of
studying American History. Understanding the importance of participating in
elections, at the local level just as much as the state or federal levels. It
is vital that if we want change to come to our country, it has to start with
you at home.

We must get back to the basics. I find in talking to many Americans, they truly
do not understand the bigger issues facing our country. We rely on mass
corporate medias to tell us right vs wrong. We long for the one line zingers,
instead of a insightful debate about issues. Conversations are a footnote to
history.

We as Americans have a debt to all of those who have died, believing in
something greater than themselves. This is the truest act of democracy, for it
doesn't matter the color of your skin, or the status of you class. Everyone is
equal on the day of reckoning. We can only get better, if we open up the
dialogue and embrace the change that now faces our nation.

So I'll end with this. This is not doomsday, but another trial of our nation.
If we stride to overcome the animosity, fight with the power of knowledge, then
and only then can we truly ignite a change in our nation. The conversations
have to start at home. We have to elect at the local levels. If we do this, we
will see a grass roots change that will bridge a divide that has plagued our
nation for far too long. Trump will be the 45th President of the United States.
It is our duty to support him and hold him accountable to keeping the United
States, one of the greatest countries on earth.
