:tocdepth: 1

.. _lifestyle_1:

Cold Running!
=============

.. container:: center

    by :ref:`matt`


Your fingers are cracked, throat is dry, soar and stinging red face from the
winter wind. Sounds terrible right? why should you run in the cold, when you
can jump on a tread mill or hit the elliptical. Why not just stay cuddled in
the warm bed and come down stairs to a fresh hot coffee.

My name is Matt. I have been running competitively for over 20 years. I ran
track and cross country in college and have seen a lot of coaching styles over
the years. There is one thing I have learned that is crucial to running in
extreme weather and just running at all.

Run how your body feels. This is one the most important tips I can give you.
Witnessing numerous injuries over the years, a lot of is because you are
pushing your body at the wrong time. For instance, we are stuck in this phase
of speed day, slow day, speed day, slow day. Which can work for a few people
but not always for the average runner; I see bigger issues. Your not recovering
properly.

I run on average three to six miles a day. My pace will vary from 5:30 a mile,
to 7:30 mile pace. It all depends on how my body is feeling. If I am looking
for turnover speed, I will do repeat of 200 meter pickups to increase my
turnover speed, but as far as training goes it doesn't take much to maintain
your endurance and V02 levels.

When the weather is extreme like this, just go for it. If you are stiff and
feel broke down, run a shake down down (light jog). How many runs have you done
where it was a slow day and you felt amazing. The pace goal you had in mind was
too slow? It happens and a lot. This is where you are losing valuable workouts.
These will bring you to the next level. You don't always have to kill a work
out to become a better runner, because after all, running is about dedication.

This will be my last point. Be dedicated and get acclimated to the weather. The
sooner you do this the better your body will feel in future runs. Please take
the precautions and bundle up so you don't die and do drink water and replenish
those electrolytes.

Well I am off for a run! Stay warm but not too comfortable my friends. I will
be back soon to give running tips and ab circuit tips. If you have a specific
question about a work out or ab routine leave a message on
our `Facebοоk <https://www.facebook.com/TheAsinineShow/>`__ page. I am here to
help.
