:tocdepth: 1

.. _article_32:

Everybody Dies Alone
====================

.. container:: center

    by :ref:`brant`


I find myself today celebrating a birthday. Birthdays to many are important,
even sacred events but I have always approached the concept as an arbitrary
one. This is common for me in a more abstract sense; having a different set of
values than what seems to be culturally ingrained. That isn't to say that I
find few things important—I find much in this world sacred, even holy—it's just
that my set does not line up cleanly with many that I've encountered.

That sense of subtle isolation, ever present, is today occupying me more than
is normal. I wonder, "What does it mean to be anything besides alone?"

As an entity—an individual—I'm separated by a distance that cannot be traversed
no matter how fervently I might pursue a complete and total connection.
Isolation though isn't so much a mere fact as it is a sense or perception. The
feeling of late for me has been trending this way very slowly, almost sneaking
upon me. I realize that few know me well, perhaps even those that I had thought
would have the clearest picture of me.

Friends ascribe motivations to my words which are wholly foreign to me and I
wonder if they don't know me or if I've misled them. Observations or
interesting discussions yield deeply emotional responses in others long before
I sense internally anything beyond a mild curiosity. Where is the problem
exactly? Is the trouble is one of expectation? Is it naive to hope for persons
in ones life that make good faith attempts to perceive me? Why is it that I
feel like much of what I say is misunderstood or misperceived?

Perhaps the problem is me. Perhaps I've an inadequacy in my ability to frame
myself, my thoughts, or my actions in ways that make them obvious to others.
Perhaps it's a mistake to try to communicate ideas that I find so interesting
without expecting them to be altered beyond recognition. Perhaps it is time for
me to recognize something more difficult to admit. The gap is too far to
bridge. I like everyone else am singularly me and that's okay. Maybe the desire
for connection is merely perceptual as well, a social program chiseled by eons
of evolution.

I'm not angry. I'm sad and tired. Some piece of will has vanished, eroded away
by my own expectations, actions, and choices. What's vanished ultimately is
some naivety. Ultimately facing the void is solitary.


The problem isn't my birthday though:

  "Day" is a vestigial mode of time measurement based on solar cycles. [#f1]_

  Everybody dies alone. [#f1]_


.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#f1] Yes, Firefly references. Couldn't be helped, just let it go.
