:tocdepth: 1

.. _article_13:


Wonder Lost
===========

.. container:: center

    by :ref:`brant`

.. admonition:: Quote
   :class: admonition-todo

   All things are poison, and nothing is without poison, the dosage alone makes
   it so a thing is not a poison.

   — Paracelsus

*Wake up, check your phone. Go to work. Read the news in the bathroom. Read it
walking down the hall. Post about the latest outrage. Argue with people about a
topic on social media. Go home. Read more news. Watch personalities analyze the
news. Live it. Breath it. Let it consume you. Jump into the pool of news and
media and let it consume your thoughts. Yes, consume it. You're a consumer. Do
your job. Call it being informed. Call it caring about the issues. Call it
being engaged. Proclaim that it's meaningful and important. Tell yourself you
can stand apart from it; objective. Tell yourself it doesn't affect you.
Validate your actions.*

Problem
-------
**We are overdosing on media and it's poisoning us.**

An important human trait is ability to see and identify trends that are
relevant. Relevance is based on those things which we encounter more
frequently. As recently as a few hundred years the rate of information
propagation was slow enough that the daily life of people on one side of the
world had little to no effect on the lives of people on the other side of the
world. Since that information would never be encountered by either party
neither could have perceived it as relevant. In a modern world this is no
longer true. We choose which information to consume. The glut of available data
is now an ideologically driven concept.

A few weeks back I was walking through a small wooded area looking for morel
mushrooms. Having hunted for them every year since I was a child I knew what to
look for. I foraged, experiencing the joy of discovering something edible in
the wild. As I lay down to sleep the evening after a hunt I noticed something.
Swirling murkily in my minds eye was the vague after-image of a morel mushroom.
My ability to recognize this pattern was active. Similarly, the more you
encounter something the better you become at finding it. Over time you become
attuned to the pattern and easily spot it even when a novice cannot. Become
overly attuned and you begin to see it even when it's not there. An animal in
the clouds. An image in smoke. Two headlights and a grill conjure a face.
Abstract information is the canvas on which our minds paint.

It's this adaptation requires us to be cautious with the information we
consume. Our daily ritual of enjoying the clash of egos, attacks on ideas, and
vilifications of groups leaves us nothing but a hollow shell vicariously living
through media personalities and reveling conflict like a kid at the movies.

What value do these inputs really hold for us? Do they help us get more out of
the time we're given? Given that we now choose the information we can consume,
what thought do we put into the information we feed our minds? Is a dose this
high worth momentary catharsis as we laugh at someone else's misfortune? At
what point does this dose become **poison**?

Solutions
---------
It's an oversimplification to distill a complex issue into a few simple
solutions. Thus don't take this as a list of possible ways to fix the issue but
rather as additional ways to meditate on the issues at hand. Most people
operate in some combination of these modes others that aren't listed here at
all. The way forward is to find some way to build a bridge of understanding
between the very ideas that divide us.

.. _option1:

Option 1: War
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
Confront and battle any opposing ideals. Disparage the enemy. Crush them if it
becomes untenable for both of you to exist simultaneously. Push your ideology
and rejoice when it's goals meet with success. Revel in the outrage of the
opposition when you score a victory, enjoying the pain of the opposition. Rage
or despair when ideological goals are blocked or disrupted by others. Push your
agenda as if the only world you'd be happy to live in is one where your ideas
are sacrosanct. If the tide turns against you, resort to any means necessary to
preserve your goals. Obstruct. Harm. Destroy. Cooperation is for cowards with
no clear moral imperatives. Hold the line and refuse to entertain alternative
futures or any idea that any of your core beliefs are possibly on shaky ground.
You are the warrior for truth and justice. Do not be afraid to start a war
where none existed. Battle lines need drawn.

This may sound cynical but it's not without merit. It implies a strong
hierarchy and a clear direction from which values and action originate.
Militaries have long recognized the efficacy of such a conceptual system and
gains their strength by forcing as much order and rigor as possible.

.. _option2:

Option 2: Passive
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
Though not dissimilar to the path of war, this path is more ego driven and full
of self indulgence. Believe in the war but participate only indirectly.
Vicariously live through those at war as an armchair quarterback content in the
knowledge that you would have made better choices if YOU were in charge or
confident in the infallibility of your hero of the week. Never give any
intellectual ground and engage in elaborate self deception which allows
convince yourself that you gave other ideas a fair trial even though the
verdict was announced before the opening arguments. Believe fervently that if
you held the reigns then the world would be a better place were you not so
inconsequential. Listen only enough to find rebuttal but never enough to really
hear a person. Poke and prod your intellectual enemies and let each response
buttress your sense of rightness. Don't identify or empathize with these
people. They wouldn't empathize with you and so you owe them nothing.

Obviously more passive, this is the tact taken by many regardless of their
ideology. The passive are the culture which war protects and the reason they do
battle. An army needs support and this element is a place from which to draw
it.

.. _option3:

Option 3: Distraction
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
Rather than participating simply ignore all sides of things until they directly
confront you. If you're sad look for something to make you happy. Go out to eat
or watch television or a movie. Never give yourself fully to anything. Instead,
merely survive. The journey of life isn't very important and what you do
doesn't matter anyway. You're afraid of death though so simply do whatever
feels good and keeps you from considering the inevitable. Work. Consume. Buy
things you don't need. Live in debt so you have some pressure to get out of bed
in the morning and go to work. Avoid thinking about purpose and engage in
religious rituals to convince you there is intrinsic meaning to your existence.
Deep down you don't believe it but that only wells up when you've got too much
time to think. Inevitability will catch up with you someday but the encounter
will be brief and you'll deal with it then.

Many do this frequently. When they are unable to distract themselves they spend
a bit of time in :ref:`option1` or :ref:`option2` as an additional means of
escapism. It's not a path to inner peace but it works well enough to get most
people through the day.

.. _option4:

Option 4: Reflection
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
In all the raging turmoil of life, culture, social media, the 24 hour news
cycle, left vs right, nationalism vs globalism, etc... it's easy to feel adrift
or inconsequential. On a grand enough scale anything finite is a mere mote set
against an all encompassing darkness that renders it devoid of meaning and
purpose. But instead of looking outward one can look inward. Not inward in the
narcissistic ego driven naval gazing way that most people think of but instead
deeper and more spiritual. What is it that we are? If we wish to find peace
then we should figure out what it is that *desires* peace.

Pursue these questions with curiosity and courage. Pointing out issues is
simple. Far harder is is finding solutions. These begin with the self and not
others but admitting this can be a shot to the ego. "The problem isn't ME it's
all these jerks and idiots." No, the problem is within you. It's the rot and
darkness and fears that we project or ignore or defy. There is no peace to be
found in the 24 hour news cycle. It's designed to appeal to our sense of
spectacle and capitulates to the worst parts of ourselves. The distraction is
cunningly designed, allowing us to participate passively in whatever war
reinforces our existing views. But the media is not the real problem.

If you were stripped free of the baggage of your life, clean down to the
deepest parts of your soul so that you were once again as naive as a child, you
find would pieces of yourself that are currently missing or hidden. We bury or
kill aspects of ourselves because we're small and scared and sensitive. We
surround ourself with our own constructions designed to protect this piece of
ourselves. Forts go up. Walls. Abstractions. Intellectualizations.
Rationalizations. They attempt to protect the soft parts of our flank. Each
unkindness the world brought us is baked into a new brick for our
fortifications. Sometimes we are hurt so deeply that we are unable to remove
the blade, leaving a vulnerability which no fortification can protect.

When we stare out from our own fortifications we don't see the pure version of
anyone. We see *their* facades and forts and the blades they couldn't remove
protruding from them. Their form is different but they were built for the same
fundamental reasons that ours were.

Some people look for places where others are still open and vulnerable or where
a blade still protrudes and attack that spot and enjoying the pain they cause.
To them the problem isn't their attacks—it's that these people didn't have good
enough fortifications.

One of the most challenging things we can do as humans is to look beyond the
fortification and facades of a person, into the ineffable condition we all
share and to love them unconditionally even as they seek to harm us or others
we love. It's tempting to give into fear and pain and say we shouldn't have
compassion for some people. This is a lie we tell ourselves. It can be done but
it's something we must do willingly and with an open heart. The militant
fighter murdering women and children, the drug dealer, the abuser, the
murderer, the suicide bomber, and the troll were all once babies who wanted
nothing but warmth and safety and love and care and something terrible happened
along the way. They're wounded and carried along by the inertia of their own
lives and forts and baggage and pain. It's possible to carry understanding
without condoning or excusing actions. Compassion is a volitional act not a
judgment and it's the first step in healing your own persistent wounds. Not
everyone is ready or willing to heal.

Shut off your constant news feed. Purge your daily intake of hatred and
cathartic trolling and entrainment news and talking heads and sound-bites and
pandering news and bitching about the state of things and just **stop**. Stop
everything. Find stillness and quiet. Peace. Look inward towards the piece of
you that you're defending with your fortifications and remember a deeply human
child-like naivety that is capable of unrestricted joy and trust and love and
wonder and awe and allow this piece of you to emerge and let it's emotions flow
through you and cry—weep with joy or sadness for love lost or those we love, for
potential squandered, for questions unanswered, for those taken too
soon, for those whose wounds we cannot heal or for your own wounds and be a
pure being without a fort and stand before the universe with humility, raw and
bare and vulnerable and afraid and feel... just **feel**. It's not the world
that is keeping that part of you locked away. It's you.
