:tocdepth: 1

.. _article_20:

I Want My Nazi Scalps
=====================

.. container:: center

    by :ref:`Jesse`

I shouldn't allow social media reactions to the tragedy in Charlottesville to
bother me. But they have. I'm so tired of all the rants and virtue signaling
that I'm gonna do a little of my own. Before I summon the Ragnar”ßk upon you, I
want to say how sad it is that someone lost their life to the senseless
violence. Sometimes things don't make any sense and there are no words.

.. warning:: If you value my opinion, you should probably quit reading now.

I want to start with you virtue signalers. Don't tell me I need to condemn
anything because of the color of my skin or the fact that I hold some
conservative views. I am not responsible for the actions of another, especially
some Nazi. I condemn based on whether something is right or wrong. And both
sides in this were in the wrong.

To you people who condemned the event because you said it must be condemned now
or 3 friends will turn into Nazi sympathizers... you're as bad as those fucking
chain letters. Let me slow clap for you. 99% of us don't agree in any way with
what happened. Do you think the far left or far right represent the majority of
us who are living paycheck to paycheck? I'm sorry, I can't muster enough hate
while I'm busy cooking dinner or trying to make sure my daughter's shoes are on
the correct feet.

To the political opportunists... It was Trump's fault? Was he driving that car?
What exactly did he do? Oh, you mean before he knew who the driver of the car
was he didn't name specific groups that were responsible for what happened and
instead blamed everyone involved? Or maybe he was pandering to the couple
thousand KKK members and even fewer Neo Nazis and "Alt Righters"? What a piece
of shit he must be to want far left people dead. Maybe he really is Hitler!
Stop being a damn child for a minute and save the Hitler comparison for the
next Hitler.

To the damn fools on the far right... your thinking is clouded by hate. You
call for one master race, and America to be white and only white. Your views
are un-American. You've lost sight of what America stands for and you're stuck
in this perpetual cycle of hate. What you're doing to your kids is child abuse
and you make me sick. But... I'll stand up for your rights to say what you
believe. As deplorable as that may be... this is still America. And in America
you can say whatever dumb shit you want. I'm happy you talk about your views in
public so we can know how truly stupid you are.

To the damn fools on the far left... you're not much better. You want to be the
Anti Fascists but you've only achieved fascism. Denying others the right to
speak, attacking those who disagree, and destroying property? You're also
un-American. Read the constitution and find a better path. Stop trying to
intimidate the rest of us who don't conform to your worldview. Oh yeah, and get
a real job, you professional protesting pricks.

To everyone else involved... what the hell did you think was going to happen?
When you get a bunch of humans together, they get exponentially dumber. That
happened here, and two police officers died because of your stupidity. I'm
sorry that I care a lot less about the idiots than I do the innocents.

And finally, the media. You can go to hell, too. The groups America
collectively despise got the spotlight. You and these counter protesters gave
them exactly what they wanted. Now these fringe groups get to look relevant.
They are not. You know they are not. Stop trying to convince us otherwise and
for what? Ratings? Political gains?

Ultimately the shame in all this doesn't rest on the hardworking American
people who are falling through life. It hangs solely around these fool's necks
and the people who fund them. You don't believe in American principles and
values. The only American thing about you is you happened to be born here,
which is sad for the rest of us.

I want to leave you with something to think about. So, from the words of
Scarface from the movie Half Baked:

"Fuck you, fuck you, fuck you, you're cool, and fuck you, I'm out!"
