:tocdepth: 1

.. _satire_1:

BREAKING: Anthony Weiner Found Dead
===================================

.. container:: center

    by :ref:`brant`

NUNNELLY, TN—Former U.S. Representative Anthony David Weiner was found dead
this morning following Donald Trump's stunning general election victory.
Weiner—seen as recently as November 4th on horseback engaged in equine therapy
as part of his treatment for [cyber]sex addiction and other undisclosed mental
health disorders—was found dead by Recovery Ranch Administrative Directory
Marie Reed hanging from his own belt in the closet of the resort bedroom in
which he was staying. "This is a clear cut case of death by auto-erotic
asphyxiation," said FBI Director James B Comey. Comey is personally overseeing
the investigation.

"Losing Weiner is a real loss," said Transportation Supervisor Dave Ward. "You
could tell that he was really committed to changing his deviant ways. His death
came as a complete shock to everyone at the facility." Other members of the
staff also voiced their shock. "I told him he would leave this place and never
be a slave to his sexual impulses ever again," said Admissions Financial
Coordinator Jenger Parrish. "The irony of that statement just makes me sick."
Even Primary Therapist Lisa Anderson was shocked by the sudden passing of
Weiner. "He was very open and honest with me, and he never once mentioned being
into auto-erotic asphyxiation."

In a recent AP interview, Huma Abedin said of her estranged husband, "I knew he
was into self-choking as a means to achieve a semi-hallucinogenic dreamy state
and orgasms that rival the rush of cocaine. He used to ask me to choke him but
I was never strong enough, even when I was upset by his deviant sexual
behavior. While we had a challenging marriage and eventually separated, I am
saddened by his surprising and [un]timely death. I am fortunate to have the
support of my close friend Hillary Clinton with whom I shared tears this
morning when I learned of this tragic loss."

President elect Donald J. Trump—who insisted on being interviewed for this
story despite not being sought for commentary—noted, "I've seen Weiners dick
pics, they weren't that impressive. Maybe I'll put some up on Twitter for
nostalgia. R.I.P Anthony, you won't be missed. Sorry Hillary killed you though.
What a nasty woman."

While Internet conspiracies have run rampant at the recent news, accusing
failed presidential nominee Hillary Clinton, Hillary Clinton's secret police
force, Hillary Clinton's alien lizard people army, and Hillary Clinton's
surrogate Megyn Kelly of being behind the gruesome but strangely amusing death
of Anthony Weinder, FBI Director James Comey has affirmed that there is not
enough evidence of malicious behavior to warrant a prosecution of anyone
related to Hillary Clinton in any way. "Let's just put this guy to rest," he
stated flatly at a press conference early Wednesday afternoon. "In fact let's
put everything to rest," he murmured serenely, his thumb longingly stroking his
F.B.I. issued sidearm.
